README.md, before:

# HyperTrack Expo config plugin for React Native HyperTrack SDK

[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/hypertrack/sdk-expo?color=orange)](./LICENSE)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/hypertrack-sdk-expo)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/hypertrack-sdk-expo)
[![hypertrack-sdk-react-native](https://img.shields.io/badge/hypertrack_sdk_react_native-11.0.2-brightgreen.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/hypertrack-sdk-expo)

[HyperTrack](https://www.hypertrack.com) lets you add live location tracking to your mobile app. Live location is made available along with ongoing activity, tracking controls and tracking outage with reasons.

React Native HyperTrack SDK is a wrapper around native iOS and Android SDKs that allows to integrate HyperTrack into React Native apps.

Expo [config plugin](https://docs.expo.io/guides/config-plugins/) enables usage of React Native HyperTrack SDK with Expo managed workflow.

For information about how to get started with Expo and React Native HyperTrack SDK, please check this [Guide](https://www.hypertrack.com/docs/install-sdk-expo).

## Installation

- `npx expo install hypertrack-sdk-expo`
- `npx expo install hypertrack-sdk-react-native`

### Add HyperTrack Expo plugin to the app

Add `hypertrack-sdk-expo` to [`plugins`](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/config/app/#plugins) array of your `app.json` or `app.config.js`:

```json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "hypertrack-sdk-expo",
        {
          "publishableKey": "YourPublishableKey", // find this in the HyperTrack dashboard
          "locationPermission": "We need your location to track delivered orders."
        },
      ],
    ]
  }
}
```

### Set required build properties

Use [expo-build-properties](https://docs.expo.dev/versions/latest/sdk/build-properties/) to set build properties.

Run `npx expo install expo-build-properties` and add this to `plugins` in `app.json` or `app.config.js`:

```json
[
  "expo-build-properties",
  {
    "android": {
      "minSdkVersion": 21
    }
  }
]
```

### Set up push notifications

- For iOS, to enable push notifcations you need to add [push notifications credentials](https://docs.expo.dev/app-signing/managed-credentials/#ios)
- For Android, to enable push notifcations you need to use [FCM for Push Notifications](https://docs.expo.dev/push-notifications/using-fcm/)

#### Manual Setup

For `Bare workflow projects, you can follow the [manual setup guide for React Native](https://hypertrack.com/docs/install-sdk-react-native/#set-up-silent-push-notifications).

## Sample code

[Quickstart Expo app](https://github.com/hypertrack/quickstart-expo)

## Wrapper API Documentation

[Wrapper API Documentation](https://hypertrack.github.io/sdk-react-native/)

## Versioning

Ensure you use versions that work together!

| `expo`   | `hypertrack-sdk-expo` | `hypertrack-sdk-react-native` |
| -------- | --------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| ^45.0.0  | 1.0.0                 | ^7.19.1                       |
| ^46.0.14 | 1.1.0                 | ^8.2.1                        |
| ^46.0.14 | 1.2.0                 | ^8.2.1                        |
| ^47.0.0  | 2.0.0                 | ^9.0.0                        |
| ^48.0.0  | 3.0.0                 | ^9.0.0                        |
| ^49.0.0  | 4.0.0                 | ^11.0.2                       |

## Configuring permission purpose strings

iOS requires specifying [permission purpose strings](https://hypertrack.com/docs/install-sdk-ios/#add-location-and-motion-purpose-strings) in `Info.plist` for app to build.

You can use plugin parameters described below to set the strings.

Every time you change the props or plugins, you'll need to rebuild (and `prebuild`) the native app.

If no extra properties are added, defaults will be used.

- `locationPermission` (_string_): Sets `NSLocationAlwaysAndWhenInUseUsageDescription`, `NSLocationAlwaysUsageDescription`, `NSLocationWhenInUseUsageDescription`

- `motionPermission` (_string_): Sets `NSMotionUsageDescription`

Edit `hypertrack-sdk-expo` item in your `app.json` or `app.config.js`:

```json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "hypertrack-sdk-expo",
        {
          "locationPermission": "PUT_YOUR_PERMISSION_HINT_MESSAGE_HERE",
          "motionPermission": "PUT_YOUR_PERMISSION_HINT_MESSAGE_HERE"
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Release `4.0.1` with latest Expo and HT SDKs

README.md, after:

# HyperTrack Expo config plugin for React Native HyperTrack SDK

[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/hypertrack/sdk-expo?color=orange)](./LICENSE)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/hypertrack-sdk-expo)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/hypertrack-sdk-expo)
[![hypertrack-sdk-react-native](https://img.shields.io/badge/hypertrack_sdk_react_native-11.0.2-brightgreen.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/hypertrack-sdk-expo)

[HyperTrack](https://www.hypertrack.com) lets you add live location tracking to your mobile app. Live location is made available along with ongoing activity, tracking controls and tracking outage with reasons.

React Native HyperTrack SDK is a wrapper around native iOS and Android SDKs that allows to integrate HyperTrack into React Native apps.

Expo [config plugin](https://docs.expo.io/guides/config-plugins/) enables usage of React Native HyperTrack SDK with Expo managed workflow.

For information about how to get started with Expo and React Native HyperTrack SDK, please check this [Guide](https://www.hypertrack.com/docs/install-sdk-expo).

## Installation

- `npx expo install hypertrack-sdk-expo`
- `npx expo install hypertrack-sdk-react-native`

### Add HyperTrack Expo plugin to the app

Add `hypertrack-sdk-expo` to [`plugins`](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/config/app/#plugins) array of your `app.json` or `app.config.js`:

```json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "hypertrack-sdk-expo",
        {
          "publishableKey": "YourPublishableKey", // find this in the HyperTrack dashboard
          "locationPermission": "We need your location to track delivered orders."
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

### Set required build properties

Use [expo-build-properties](https://docs.expo.dev/versions/latest/sdk/build-properties/) to set build properties.

Run `npx expo install expo-build-properties` and add this to `plugins` in `app.json` or `app.config.js`:

```json
[
  "expo-build-properties",
  {
    "android": {
      "minSdkVersion": 21
    }
  }
]
```

### Set up push notifications

- For iOS, to enable push notifcations you need to add [push notifications credentials](https://docs.expo.dev/app-signing/managed-credentials/#ios)
- For Android, to enable push notifcations you need to use [FCM for Push Notifications](https://docs.expo.dev/push-notifications/using-fcm/)

#### Manual Setup

For `Bare workflow projects, you can follow the [manual setup guide for React Native](https://hypertrack.com/docs/install-sdk-react-native/#set-up-silent-push-notifications).

## Sample code

[Quickstart Expo app](https://github.com/hypertrack/quickstart-expo)

## Wrapper API Documentation

[Wrapper API Documentation](https://hypertrack.github.io/sdk-react-native/)

## Versioning

Ensure you use versions that work together! These are the ones that have been tested by us at the time of release:

| `expo`   | `hypertrack-sdk-expo` | `hypertrack-sdk-react-native` |
| -------- | --------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| ^49.0.13 | 4.0.1                 | ^11.0.9                       |
| ^49.0.0  | 4.0.0                 | ^11.0.2                       |
| ^48.0.0  | 3.0.0                 | ^9.0.0                        |
| ^47.0.0  | 2.0.0                 | ^9.0.0                        |
| ^46.0.14 | 1.2.0                 | ^8.2.1                        |
| ^46.0.14 | 1.1.0                 | ^8.2.1                        |
| ^45.0.0  | 1.0.0                 | ^7.19.1                       |

## Configuring permission purpose strings

iOS requires specifying [permission purpose strings](https://hypertrack.com/docs/install-sdk-ios/#add-location-and-motion-purpose-strings) in `Info.plist` for app to build.

You can use plugin parameters described below to set the strings.

Every time you change the props or plugins, you'll need to rebuild (and `prebuild`) the native app.

If no extra properties are added, defaults will be used.

- `locationPermission` (_string_): Sets `NSLocationAlwaysAndWhenInUseUsageDescription`, `NSLocationAlwaysUsageDescription`, `NSLocationWhenInUseUsageDescription`

- `motionPermission` (_string_): Sets `NSMotionUsageDescription`

Edit `hypertrack-sdk-expo` item in your `app.json` or `app.config.js`:

```json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "hypertrack-sdk-expo",
        {
          "locationPermission": "PUT_YOUR_PERMISSION_HINT_MESSAGE_HERE",
          "motionPermission": "PUT_YOUR_PERMISSION_HINT_MESSAGE_HERE"
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```
